# Crowdsourced Beer Recommender System

## Introduction:

The goal of this project was to create the foundation for a crowdsourced recommendation system for beers using data from Beeradvocate.com. This website is a forum where users can share reviews and ratings of different beers. The system was designed to take in user preferences for specific attributes of a beer and generate three recommendations based on that information

## Approach:

This was the approach used by for the project:

1. Develop a scraping tool using Selenium and Python to gather posts from Beeradvocate.com

2. Identify 3 attributes that a customer has specified as their preferences for a beer.

3. Use natural language processing tool spaCy to perform a similarity analysis between the customer's desired attributes and reviews, and select the 300 reviews with the highest similarity scores.

4. Analyze the sentiment of these 300 reviews using the Vader tool.

5. Create a composite metric by combining the similarity scores and sentiment scores to recommend 3 beers to the customer.

6. Compare and contrast the recommendations generated by using Bag of Words similarity and spaCy similarity.

## Algorithms/Tools Used:

1. Scraping using Selenium

2. Word Frequency analysis using NLTK

3. Similarity Analysis using spaCy

4. Sentiment Analysis using Vader

## Conclusion:

The entire project, including all insights, results, and code can be found in the Python Notebook: https://github.com/parthiv-borgohain/Crowdsourced-Beer-Recommender-System/blob/main/Assignment_2_Group_7.ipynb

It is observed that the recommendations vary greatly between the two methods used. The main reason for this is that we used the entire dataset of reviews, rather than focusing on the reviews that are most relevant to the customer's specified attributes ('crispy', 'foam', and 'gross'). This means that we are considering all reviews for all products, regardless of whether they match the customer's preferences or not. In the case of something as subjective as beer preferences, using all reviews is not likely to result in personalized recommendations for the user. People's taste differs and therefore, recommending top rated beers without considering similarity and sentiment is not a good idea. It can be seen from the results that the three top rated beers from step 5 do not all match well with the customer's input attributes. The other two recommendations are closer to the average of the set. In conclusion, blindly recommending high-rated beers will not meet the needs of a customer looking for personalized recommendations.

